>> Kyle Simpson: I've been promising
that we wanna talk about this == thing,
cuz it's the elephant in the room.
This is the most obvious
place where implicit coercion
not only enters our programs,
but also can bite us.
But it only bites us, not because this is
a confusing topic that can't be learned,
it only bites us because it's unlearned.
We just haven't chosen to
learn what == is about.
Guess where the best place to
learn what == is about is?
Trying it out, reading the spec,
that's all I did, okay,
there's no magical formula here.
What I chose to do was say,
if the double equals is so bad?
Let's test all of the corner cases, and
see which ones of them are really bad,
versus not actually bad.
So I came up, I programmatically
generated this list, but
I came up with 24 corner
case coercions with ==.
Far as I'm aware, these are all
the corner cases that we can express.
>> Kyle Simpson: And I went down the list,
and I said, which ones of these are crazy,
and which ones of these make sense?
And I chose to mark the ones that I
thought were strange, this is subjective.
But I said, string 0 == false,
line 3, that seems strange to me.
Cuz the string 0 and the value false
are most definitely different values.
So that results where they
end up both becoming numbers,
and comparing to each other.
That result is strange,
should not be, okay,?
But by comparison, line 8,
false == null, that fails.
And that makes a lot of sense to fail,
because false and
null are distinctly different values.
And so they aren't equal to each other,
you follow me?
So if we do the math here, there are 7
of these 24 which are kind of outliers,
they are generally WTFs.
And there's another 17 of them that
actually are pretty reasonable.
Your numbers might be slightly different.
But the point that I'm trying to get at
is, supposedly, all of coercion is bad.
And it's okay to just get rid
of all this implicit coercion,
but I kind of think that would be
sort of baby with the bathwater here.
Cuz it actually looks like most
of coercion is pretty good, and
there's only a few corner cases
that we should be worried about.
Because there's an infinite number
of == coercion comparisons that
aren't corner cases, and
they're all completely reasonable.
>> Kyle Simpson: So out of
the infinite space of reasonable ones,
there's only seven which are problematic,
that's the point, okay?
Let's zero in on those seven,
here they are.
>> Kyle Simpson: What do you notice
about the first four in that list?
>> Speaker 2: False.
>> Kyle Simpson: They're all doing
a == comparison with false, right,
and I already told you
to eliminate those four.
So that was pretty easy,
we just went from seven down to three.
Eliminate those four, and
focus on these three in particular, and
now let's look at those three.
When do those kinds of
things happen in code?
Let's look at the line 6 and
line 7, specifically.
When is it that we end up doing a double
equals comparison with a empty string and
an empty array?
When can that happen, or
when can we compare a 0 to an empty array?
I decided to test this against
my own history of my code,
all of the code that I've ever written.
I decided to go and try to do some
analysis of my code and figure out,
are there any places where I do the == and
this can happen?
And I found very few examples where
that's even remotely possible.
Now, your code may be different.
But the point I'm trying to get at is,
it's not terribly common that we end up
with these logic cases where we could end
up comparing an empty
string to an empty array.
And there's a few places, but it's not
every line of code that this happens.
So even line 6 and line 7,
they are corner cases, but
they're not common corner cases,
they're rare corner cases.
So we really just end up back at line 5,
the root of all evil,
that one empty string
double equalling to 0.
They all sort of devolve to it,
as a matter of fact,
line 6 devolves to it,
and line 7 devolves to it.
Line 6 and line 7 happen because of line
5, it really is the root of all evil.
And some of you may have
seen the WAP video before.
It came out several years back, and it was
making fun of, in particular, this case.
Where the empty array is somewhere
coercively equal to the negation of
the empty array, that's crazy.
People that design JavaScript,
I don't know what they're smoking, right?
So it got a lot of traction
from making fun of JavaScript.
There is lots of opportunity to
make fun of JavaScript when you
are ignorant about JavaScript, it's easy.
The hard part is to say, hey, wait
a minute, why is JavaScript doing that,
what part of my
understanding is different?
You know what might be
different between me and you?
And I mean you metaphorically,
the industry as a whole.
What might be different between me and you
is that when I see something that doesn't
make sense, I don't blame
the design of the language first.
There's a lot of developers that when they
see something in JavaScript that doesn't
make sense, you know what they do?
Those idiot designers of
that JavaScript language!
Because we assume, somehow, that we
should be able to look at something and
immediately intuit exactly what it's
doing, without any learning at all.
And if it takes any effort on our part,
or if it's confusing in the slightest?
We immediately jump to the conclusion,
those people don't know what
they're doing, designing languages.
Because my Python, or
my Ruby, or my .NET, or
fill in the blank of my favorite
language doesn't do that.
We immediately assume the designers
of the language were poor.
You know what I assume, there's
something wrong with my understanding.
>> Kyle Simpson: I mean, when you come
down to it, the source of every bug in
every program ever written is
actually a lack of understanding.
This is how I like to say it,
at the point where your brain diverges
from the way the computer works.
It is at that junction point
that bugs enter your code.
Because if you understood it,
you wouldn't write a bug, right?
I mean, if you fully understood a piece
of code, you'd write it correct.
So if there was a bug,
there must be a lack of understanding.
And all I've done is embrace that
as a core philosophy of mine.
If there's something I don't understand,
the problem is on me.
Now, I've made plenty of critiques, even
today, about design decisions of language.
But I'm not doing that
from a place of ignorance.
I'm doing that from a place of,
I've studied it deeply, and
I've worked with people, and
I've become frustrated by it.
And by the way,
those opinions have changed.
There are things that I used to complain
about, that I no longer complain about,
because now, I understand them.
And because that was true for
myself, I thought.
I wonder, if I shared with
other people and they learned,
maybe they'd complain less,
food for thought.
So this double, or I mean,
this empty array equal to
the negation of the empty array.
First off, the problem of how
absurd that looks comes from
a misunderstanding about operators work.
There's a misunderstanding here, that the
operators are gonna happen all at once.
Which isn't the case,
there is an operator precedence.
The negate's gonna happen
before the comparison, okay?
It's not as obvious, but it's a fact.
So what's gonna happen when
we negate an empty array?
That's a non-primitive, so first we're
gonna call the two-primitive on it.
What's the two-primitive
of an empty array?
>> Speaker 2: String.
>> Kyle Simpson: Unfortunately, it's the
empty string, it ought to be the string
with brackets in it, but
unfortunately, it's the empty string.
So we have turned it into the empty
string, as its primitive.
And now, the negate operator says,
well, wait, I don't have a boolean yet.
So I need to take that empty string and
turn it into a boolean, everybody with me?
So what is the empty
string's boolean equivalent?
>> Speaker 2: False.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's false, right,
but now, we're in the negate operator,
so we're gonna flip it around to true.
So now, what we're actually saying is,
the empty array == true.
That's the real comparison that's
happening here, everybody with me on that?
So the empty array is gonna
become the string, and
that's gonna become the number 0.
And then when we have the array on the
other side, which becomes a string, and
it becomes a number 0.
So now, we compare 0 to 0,
we have two occurrences of the root of
all evil here, where string became 0.
If empty string had just became NaN,
that wouldn't have happened, okay?
So all it takes is to actually dig into
understanding operations that occur.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: There was a question on, can
you explain why false == null is false?
You're saying, if == does a number
coercion and both null and
false coerce to 0,
should the result not be true?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes, except for
the fact that there is a special class,
there is a special case which,
we're gonna look at the spec in a minute.
There is a special case in the spec which
deals with none, null and undefined,
they are treated specially.
And importantly, null and
undefined are treated as coercively
equal to each other, and
to no other values in the language.
So if it was only a numeric coercion
that assertion would be true,
that would be correct, but
there's more to the spec than that.